# 1. Part 1 - Adding submodules
Created Saturday 20 February 2021

#### Add a repo as submodule, from URL

* Go to the project repo.
* To add the submodule: specify the context(``submodule``) after ``git`` keyword, like so:

	git submodule add repo_URL
	# example
	git submodule add https://github.com/djyde/ToProgress
	
	# optionally specify - path for the submodule/
	# you can specify the name for the submodule - in the path.
	git submodule add repo_URL path


* Result: The submodule is cloned. Check status.

	$ git status
	On branch master
	Changes not staged for commit:
		(use "git add ..." to update what will be committed)
		(use "git checkout -- ..." to discard changes in working directory)
	
		modified:   lib/ToProgress (new commits)


* Although the parent repo does not track the submodules content, you still need to ``commit`` the act of adding the submodule. The ``.gitmodule`` file is created(or changed), and is staged automatically, only because this is the first time.

	git commit -m "Add submodule reactjs"


* If you added the submodule by mistake, do this:

	
	• Although the parent repo does not track the submodules contents, you still need to commit the act of adding the submodule to the parent repo. Tangibly the .gitmodule file has changed, which is staged automatically.
	
	• If you added the submodule by mistake, you set things right by doing this
	
	git restore --staged ../.gitmodules submodule_name_with_path


#### Clone a project with its submodules

* As the root repo only keeps *configurations* and does not track submodules, the working directory for submodules are empty after cloning.
* There are 3 ways to proceed:
	1. Populate all submodules while cloning. Just add ``--recursive-submodules`` option to ``git clone``
	2. Populate all submodules after cloning. Run ``git submodule update --init --recursive`` after cloning.
	3. Populate specific submodules: Go to a submodule's working directory(it is empty). Run ``git submodule init``(this will initialize the local configuration file) and then run ``git submodule update``. Result: Contents download and are set to the correct state, as recorded by the root repo.


#### Add/create a repo submodule, without URL
Suppose you have a repo(named Garage). You wish to add(or create) a local repo/folder(named Car) as submodule.
It's pretty simple. Steps:

1. Move/Create Car into Garage. Use ``git init`` if Car is not a repo or doesn't exist yet.
2. Make sure Car has atleast one commit. If it has none, go inside it and make one.
3. Move back to Garage and add Car as a submodule, like so: ``git submodule add path_to_Car``. The path can be absolute or relative(use ``./`` w) from Garage.
4. Stage and commit.

Done!!

