# 2. What is a submodule
Created Saturday 20 February 2021

#### What is a submodule

* A Submodule is a nested repo that Git is okay with.
* A Submodule remains a fully functional Git repository: you can modify files, commit, pull, push, etc. from inside it.
* Submodules can be located anywhere in the parent Git repository’s working directory.
* A ``.gitmodules`` file in the parent stores the configuration of the submodules.
* The submodule and parent's history are independent, you can work *in* one without affecting the other.


Note: If you are reading these notes for the first time, skip to [this](./3._Working_with_submodules.md), then come back and continue.

#### Submodule's behavior

* **Submodule-history**: The ``.git``(repo's data) folder of a sumodule doesn't actually reside within it. It is kept inside the parent repo's ``.git/modules/``
* **Recognizing a submodule**: Each submodule has a ``.git`` file(not folder) indicating that it is a submodule. The file contains just one line: location of the submodule's history(``.git`` folder) in the parent repo.
* **Manipulation**: Git commands are context-sensitive! So a command run inside a submodule won't affect the parent, and vice versa.


#### Parent repo's behavior

* **Contents of a submodule**: Obviously, the submodule's working directory lies inside the parent.
* **Tracking the submodule**: The parent repo ignores(i.e does not track) the contents of a submodule. The parent does note the current revision of a submodule, this is done for integrity(see the next point).
* **State of a submodule**: Unlike normal Git repositories, Submodules always point to a specific commit - not to a branch. This is because the contents of a branch can change over time, as new commits arrive. Pointing at a specific revision, on the other hand, guarantees that the correct code is always present.
* **Conclusion**: We can have nested repos, without the parent tracking them.


#### Details

* A ``.gitmodules`` file in a repo indicates the presence of submodules. It contains 3 things: name, URL and location of the submodules repo's VC data. This is done for each submodule.
* As said earlier, the history(``.git`` folder) of a submodule is stored in ``parent_repo/.git/modules/my_submodule_name``. The content differs a little from a standalone repo's ``.git`` folder.

Enough theory, let's get rid of caveats by doing a practical.

